- [Narrator] So far we have seen how we can create
multi container application on a single host,
using Docker for Mac.
Then we looked at how we can create a multi container
application and deploy it on a multi node
cluster using Docker Machine.
That's good for development but when you go into production
then you need something enterprise scale,
either Amazon Web Services, or AWS, or Microsoft Azure.
Docker provides simplified integration
with both of those cloud platforms.
In this section we'll cover exactly that.
On Amazon Web Services essentially what
you've got is a CloudFormation template.
CloudFormation is an Amazon term which basically is
a recipe which says what all resources needs to be created
on Amazon Web Services platform and then it creates
those resources and dependencies and et cetera,
all with a single click.
In the case of Docker, it creates all the nodes for you,
that are configured in auto scaling group.
What that means is if a node goes down,
it is automatically brought up,
because it's part of the ASG, or auto scaling group.
If you expose a service publicly and that is integrated
with ELB or elastic load balancer,
and of course there is integration with EBS
for your per system volumes.
A similar integration is done for Azure as well.
It is integrated with VM scale sets for auto scaling,
Azure Load Balancer, and Azure Storage.
All right let's get hands on with this.
The best place to start with this is docker.com/getdocker.
Once we go there, we are familiar with this link.
We looked at it when we were downloading Docker for Mac,
or Windows, and looked at Linux install instructions.
Just scroll down, and here it gives you the ability to have
Docker for AWS CloudFormation, similarly, Docker for Azure,
and there are some details about Windows Server as well.
Before we launch the stack,
let's take a look at learn more here.
It gives me more details about what Docker for AWS is.
If I click on learn more here it takes me to the channel
here that says there is a stable channel and a beta channel.
Just like Docker for Mac has a stable and a beta channel,
you can deploy the version that matters to you.
You can deploy this Docker for AWS stack using
an existing VPC, so you already have a VPC created,
or you can create a new VPC as well.
For this section it's important that you have your
Amazon Web Services account with specific permissions,
and the permissions are listed over here.
So you will need all of these permissions as part of your
AWS account in order to follow along in this section.
So now, we can go back and launch our template.
I can just click on launch stack here.
It takes me to my Amazon EC2 account,
and this is my standard CloudFormation
template that fires up.
The link to the template URL is shown over here.
That's the main thing to understand.
Click on next.
I'm going to create a new stack.
So I've got to give it a name.
We can only have odd number of managers.
We have discussed this earlier.
I just want to have a single manager.
Change that number, and I want to have four worker nodes.
So change that number as well.
I need to use a SSH key.
I'm going to use a key that we
created earlier for this session.
I can configure the container logs to be
redirected to CloudWatch, which is a default.
Now in this case, our container logs will not be accessible
on the console, but this is a reasonable assumption when
you're going on Amazon Web Services that you want to
have you logs be monitored by CloudWatch.
That's okay.
I need to change my manager instance type.
I will just choose m3 Medium,
and m3 Medium is a standard Amazon EC2 type,
but you need to do the sizing of your manager,
how many concurrent requests it might get,
in terms of scheduling your containers,
and how many nodes that you have.
Similarly I will set up a size for my worker.
I'm just choosing m3.Extra Large here,
and again, the sizing is specific to your application.
What kind of containers are you running,
how much memory they need,
how much CPU they need, and so on and so forth.
Click on next here.
Take the defaults here.
Let's do a quick review.
We are creating a Docker stack.
My template URL is right here.
One manager, four workers, there's my key.
Here is my manager instance type.
Here is my worker instance type,
and I click that this CloudFormation template
is allowed to create IAM resources.
And then we click on create, and there we go.
This shows up my CloudFormation main screen,
and if I click on refresh here,
it shows that the Docker CloudFormation template
is in progress.
So let's click on this stack here.
We can select it here, or, we can click here.
If I click here let's go to the bottom.
This started at about 15 12.
It says CloudFormation stack is going to be created.
It's creating the queue, the role, the log group, the VPCs,
all the components that need to be created
as part of the CloudFormation template.
This process can take easily 10 to 15 minutes,
depending upon how many instances you are creating,
what types of instances are you creating.
So you need to be a little bit patient about this.
Okay, we got a lot more events to be displayed here.
If we click on this,
you can see it's creating Dynamo DB tables.
Those are probably used for some synchronization aspects.
I'm using some ELBs here.
Security groups are created for me.
VPC gateways are attached.
Subnets are created.
So the entire progress of the CloudFormation template
you can literally track right here.
We got more events here now.
So the IAM policies are created successfully.
And we got more events to display, again.
And we can see that my auto scaling
groups are now getting created.
Now this is one place where I've seen it takes a little bit
longer to create these auto scaling groups.
Jumping ahead, let's see what more events are now available.
It's still in the process of creating
our auto scaling group.
If sometimes you do get impatient, you know,
what's going on?
Then you can always go back here to the stacks,
and voila.
This is completed.
So let's look back at our event here.
Feels like the console have a refresh for us.
So the entire CloudFormation stack has been created for us.
So that's good to know.
Now I can go to services, look at EC2 here.
It shows me five instances are running.
Let's sort by the name here.
So Docker Manager is the name,
and there are four other nodes that are worker.
This is m3 Medium.
These are all m3 Extra Large.
Shows me the regions that they're running in.
Let's select Docker Manager here.
Okay, I'm going to take the IP address for the manager here,
and let's go to our terminal window.
There's a clear terminal window here,
and what we'll do is we will log in to this EC2 instance.
We need to give our key name here.
Now the EC2 instances that are created as part of Docker
for AWS CloudFormation has a default user name of Docker,
and I'm going to give it the IP address here.
But we have never connected with this instance,
so it rightly asks us this information.
Yes, we want to connect with it.
And this is confirmed by saying welcome to Docker,
that you have connected to the right host, essentially.
Okay, so let's take a look at what can we do here.
If I do Docker Info, let's go to the top.
It says there are a total of five containers, five images,
four are running, one are stopped, okay?
And it shows me the Docker Server version number.
It says swarm is active because this
is created as a swarm mode cluster.
It says is manager is true, because this node is
the manager, total of one manager, total of five nodes.
Lot more information over here.
You can see the operating system is Alpine Linux,
and last but not the least,
you can see is the experimental mode is true.
Let's see more information.
Docker version, it gives me the client version,
and the server version.
Now I can take a look at Docker Node LS.
That command tells me what all nodes are available to me.
So if I zoom out a bit, you can see there is one manager,
and four worker nodes that are available,
and the status is indicated right here in the last column.
So that's kind of cool.
Let's go back to our normal level.
Let's get out of this manager.
Now, you're building your applications
on your local desktop.
How do you deploy applications?
Do you FTP to the manager, or how do you do that?
So for that what we'll do is we will create a SSH tunnel.
So I am going to go here, and I will use the same key,
and I will create a SSH tunnel here,
and we will provide a host and a port and we will map it
to var run docker.sock, and we will say docker,
and we will leave the IP address here, okay?
And we're going to run it in the background.
All right, so this has already started for us.
Now we have a tunnel created.
How do I access this tunnel now?
So I say docker-h local host: 2374,
and I'm going to say info, and I get the exact same information
right here on my local desktop.
So I can deploy my applications as I'm building here.
So for example I can take my Docker Compose file
that is on my local desktop, and use that
to deploy to a remote server very easily.
Now, before we summarize, let's take a look at how do we
clean up this set up now, because this is utilizing
your previous EC2 resources.
So let's go to the EC2 console.
I'm going to go here.
I'm going to look for CloudFormation.
So go to the CloudFormation part here.
Take a look at this here, and I'm going to click on actions,
and I will say delete stack.
The beauty of CloudFormation is as easy it is
to create the stack with one single click
you can delete all the resources that are available to you,
or that were created by the CloudFormation stack.
So make sure you do this in order to make sure
that the resources are efficiently utilized,
or not utilized when they're not required.
So, in this section, what you saw is how you can easily
create a swarm mode cluster using Docker for AWS,
and as we discussed earlier, there are similar steps
available for Docker for Azure as well.